<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
  <head>
    
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="core.css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div class="main">
    <div class="content">
    <div class="document">
    <span class="ERROR undefined">\selectlanguage</span>
  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">english</p>
  </div>
<span class="ERROR undefined">\lhead</span>
  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">[<span class="ERROR undefined">\fancyplain</span><span style="" class="text bold">0</span>][]<span class="ERROR undefined">\fancyplain</span><span class="ERROR undefined">\rhead</span><span class="ERROR undefined">\fancyplain</span><span class="ERROR undefined">\fancyplain</span><span style="" class="text bold">0<span class="ERROR undefined">\cfoot</span></span></p>
  </div>

  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p"><span style="" class="text bold LARGE">Fiduciary Licence Agreement<br class="break"/></span>
(Version 1.2)</p>
  </div>

  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p"><span style="" class="text smallcaps small">Copyright (C) 2002-2007 FSFE, e.V.,<br class="break"/>
Talstrasse 110,
40217 Dusseldorf,
Germany<br class="break"/>
This licence is released under the terms of<br class="break"/>
the Creative Commons Attribution/Share-alike licence version 2.5.</span></p>
  </div>

  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p"><span style="" class="text bold Large">Preamble</span></p>
  </div>

  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">The purpose of this agreement is to ensure consistent free open source
licensing and the lasting protection of the Mizar Mathematical Library
and related materials, by making AMU the fiduciary of the authors of
Mizar articles.  It empowers AMU to maintain the library, and protect
it in court, if necessary.<br class="break"/></p>
  </div>

  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">AMU is given the right to relicense the Mizar articles under free open
source licenses as necessary for the long-term legal maintainability
and protection of the articles. The agreement also grants the author
an unlimited amount of non-exclusive licences by AMU, which allow
using and distributing the article(s) in
other projects and under other licences. <br class="break"/></p>
  </div>

  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">The agreement also allows AMU to
additionally release the articles under different (typically
commercial) license, if AMU considers it beneficial for progress in
science and technology, and the AMU’s profit is used for further support
of its goals.<br class="break"/></p>
  </div>

  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">The contracting parties sign the following agreement in full
consciousness that by the grant of exclusive licence to the
Association of Mizar Users and by the administration of these rights
the AMU becomes trustee of the author’s interests for
the benefit of free access to science and its free development.<br class="break"/></p>
  </div>

  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p"><span style="" class="text bold Large">Agreement</span></p>
  </div>

  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">Between
<span style="" class="text bold">(please cross out unsuitable alternatives)<br class="break"/></span></p>
  
    <ul class="itemize">
    
	<li class="item">
	
  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">the author
<pre class="verbatim">
    _______________________________________________
    _______________________________________________ (Occupation, D.o. Birth)
    _______________________________________________ (Street)
    _______________________________________________ (ZIP, City, Country)
    _______________________________________________ (Pseudonym, Email)
</pre></p>
  </div>

	</li>
      
	<li class="item">
	
  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">the owner of the exclusive licence,
<pre class="verbatim">
    _______________________________________________ (Company or name)
    _______________________________________________ (HQ or addr.)
    _______________________________________________ (managing director)
</pre></p>
  
    <ul class="itemize">
    
	<li class="item">
	
  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">acquired by virtue of a contract date as of</p>
  </div>

	</li>
      
	<li class="item">
	
  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">contracting party:</p>
  </div>

	</li>
      
	<li class="item">
	
  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">acquired as employer in the context of a work and service
relationship</p>
  </div>

	</li>
      
    </ul>
  </div>

	</li>
      
    </ul>
  
    <p style="" class="p">- hereinafter referred to as ”Beneficiary” –</p>
  
    <p style="" class="p">and the
<pre class="verbatim">Association of Mizar Users
ul. Akademicka 2
15-267 Bialystok
Poland
</pre></p>
  
    <p style="" class="p">- hereinafter referred to as ”AMU” –</p>
  
    <p style="" class="p">the following agreement is entered into:<br class="break"/></p>
  </div>

    <div class="section">
    <h2 class="title section-title"><span class="refnum"><span class="reftype">§ </span>\S~1. </span>Grant</h2>
  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">(1)  Subject to the provision of § 2, Beneficiary assigns to AMU the
Copyright in mathematical articles and other copyrightable material
world-wide, or in countries where such an assignment is not
possible,<span class="note footnote"><sup class="mark">1</sup><div class="note_content"><sup class="mark">1</sup>Countries where assignments of the copyright in a
work are impossible include, but are not limited to, Germany, Austria,
Slovenia and Hungary.</div></span> grants an exclusive licence, including, inter
alia:</p>
  
    <ol class="enumerate">
    
	<li class="item">
	
  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">the right to reproduce in original or modified form;</p>
  </div>

	</li>
      
	<li class="item">
	
  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">the right to redistribute in original or modified form;</p>
  </div>

	</li>
      
	<li class="item">
	
  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">the right of making available in data networks, in particular
via the Internet, as well as by providing downloads, in original or
modified form;</p>
  </div>

	</li>
      
	<li class="item">
	
  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">the right to authorize third parties to make derivative works of
the Articles, or to work on and commit changes or perform this
conduct themselves.</p>
  </div>

	</li>
      
    </ol>
  </div>

  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">(2)  Beneficiary’s moral or personal rights remain unaffected by this
Agreement.<br class="break"/></p>
  </div>

  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">(3)  In some countries, the law may provide that the employer is deemed
to be the owner of the rights on materials developed by an employee in
the course of his or her employment, unless the parties have agreed
otherwise. The Beneficiary is aware of these provisions, and therefore
warrants, represents and guarantees that the Subject Matter is free of
any of his or her employer’s exclusive exploitation rights.</p>
  </div>

    </div>
  
    <div class="section">
    <h2 class="title section-title"><span class="refnum"><span class="reftype">§ </span>\S~2. </span>Subject Matter</h2>
  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">The rights and licences granted in § 1 are subject to all
“Articles” and “Documentation.” For the purpose of this Agreement,
“Articles” shall mean all mathematical articles, copyrightable sections
of mathematical articles or modifications of mathematical articles that have
been developed or programmed by Beneficiary and that are specified in
this Agreement below or that are listed in Exhibit A attached to this
Agreement and dated and signed by the contracting parties. Likewise,
“Documentation” shall refer to all manuals and documentation written
by Beneficiary alongside and usually distributed with the “Articles”
and are similarly specified below or listed in Exhibit A:
<pre class="verbatim">    __________________________________________________________________
    __________________________________________________________________
    __________________________________________________________________
</pre>
Except in countries where such an assignment is not
possible,<span class="note footnote"><sup class="mark">2</sup><div class="note_content"><sup class="mark">2</sup>Countries where assignments of the copyright in a
future work are impossible include, but are not limited to, France.</div></span>
the rights [and licences] granted under this agreement by Beneficiary
shall also include future developments, future corrections of errors
or faults and other future modifications and derivative works of the
articles that Beneficiary obtains copyright ownership.  Excluded from
this provision are modifications that are not derived from the subject
matter and that have to be regarded as independent and original
articles.</p>
  </div>

    </div>
  
    <div class="section">
    <h2 class="title section-title"><span class="refnum"><span class="reftype">§ </span>\S~3. </span>AMU’s Rights and <br class="break"/>Re-Transfer of Non-Exclusive Licence</h2>
  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">(1)  AMU shall exercise the granted rights and licences in its
own name. Furthermore, AMU shall be authorized to enjoin third
parties from using the articles and forbid any unlawful or copyright
infringing use of the Articles, and shall be entitled to enforce all
its rights in its own name in and out of court. AMU shall also
be authorized to permit third parties to exercise AMU’s rights
in and out of court.<br class="break"/></p>
  </div>

  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">(2)  AMU grants to Beneficiary a non-exclusive, worldwide, perpetual
and unrestricted licence in the Articles. This right’s [and licence’s]
scope shall encompass and include all the rights [and licences]
specified in § 1. Furthermore, AMU grants to Beneficiary
additional non-exclusive, transferable license to use, reproduce,
redistribute and make available the Articles as needed for releases of
the Articles under other licences.  This re-transfer shall not limit
the scope of AMU’s exclusive licence in the Articles and AMU’s
rights pursuant to § 1.<br class="break"/></p>
  </div>

  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">(3)  AMU pledges to always maintain free open source licensing of the
Articles, under (one or more) share-alike (copyleft) licenses in the
spirit of GPL, GFDL, and CC-BY-SA. In parallel, AMU is also allowed to
decide to use other (typically commercial) licensing, when it
considers that beneficial for progress in science and technology,
especially in the fields of formal methods. In such cases, any
possible commercial profit made by AMU must be used for further
advancing the charitable purposes declared in the status of AMU. In
the event AMU violates these principles, all granted rights and
licences shall automatically return to the Beneficiary and the
licences granted hereunder shall be terminated and expire.<br class="break"/></p>
  </div>

  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">(4)  The transfer of the rights and licences specified in § 1 shall
be unrestricted in territory and thus shall apply world-wide and be
temporally unlimited.</p>
  </div>

    </div>
  
    <div class="section">
    <h2 class="title section-title"><span class="refnum"><span class="reftype">§ </span>\S~4. </span>Miscellaneous</h2>
  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">(1)  Regarding the succession of rights in this contractual
relationship, Polish law shall apply, unless this Agreement imposes
deviating regulations. In case of the Beneficiary’s death, the
assignment of exclusive rights shall continue with the heirs. In case
of more than one heir, all heirs have to exercise their rights through
a common authorized person.<br class="break"/></p>
  </div>

  <div class="para">
    <p style="" class="p">(2)  Place of jurisdiction for all legal conflicts arising out of or in
connection with this Agreement is Bialystok, Poland.<br class="break"/></p>
  </div>

  <div class="para"><pre class="verbatim">__________________, ______________    __________________, ______________
__________________________________    __________________________________
           (Beneficiary)                         (AMU)
</pre></div>

    </div>
  
    </div>
  
        </div>
      </div>
    </body>
    </html>
